README.md, before:

# Nmap Scans Visualizer

This tool demonstrates visualization of specially-formatted Nmap scan data.  It runs by 3 components:

- An ElasticSearch server were the data is stored and queried
- A backend server using Flask that communicates with the ElasticSearch server and exposes API services to the web
- The frontend server which provides the Web UI that interacts with the user and communicate with the backend server

## Requirements

- A running ElasticSearch server that is accessible to the backend
- Python (Tested with 3.4.3), Ruby, Bash
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)
- [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/)

## Installation and Running Frontend and Backend Locally

First, we create a local copy by cloning repo:

    git clone https://github.com/rp-pedraza/nsv.git

Then, we change the working directory to the local copy:

    cd nsv

### Importing Data

Then, we prepare data for importing.  This will process data from the raw JSONified nmap scan files in `data` directory and save them to `data.processed`.

    ruby process-data.rb

After that, we import the processed data to the ElasticSearch server.  The default target server is `localhost:9200`, but it can be changed by opening `import-processed-data.sh` with a text editor and changing the value next to `ELASTICSEARCH_ADDRESS=`.

    bash import-processed-data.sh

### Setting Up and Running the Backend Server

After importing data, we now set up the backend server.  Change the working directory to `backend`:

    cd backend

#### Preparing a Virtualenv Environment

From here, we create an isolated environment through `virtualenv`.

If you don't have the tool installed in your system, you can install it with `pip`.

    pip install virtualenv

Alternatively, you can have it installed for the current user only by adding the `--user` option.  This would install the files in `~/.local`.

You would have to add `~/.local/bin` to the value of the `PATH` variable to be able to relatively execute the `virtualenv` binary.

    pip install virtualenv --user
    PATH=~/.local/bin:${PATH}

You can also make the modification of `PATH` permanent by adding `[[ -f ~/.bashrc ]] && . ~/.bashrc` to `~/.bash_profile` and `PATH=~/.local/bin:${PATH}` to `~/.bashrc`.

Once `virtualenv` is properly installed, we continue with the creation of the environment.  Make sure you're in the `backend` directory before running the following command:

    virtualenv venv

Then, we activate the environment.

    source venv/bin/activate

You would notice a change in your shell prompt when done.  It would be prefixed with `venv`.

At this point, we can now freely install the dependency modules without worrying about causing conflict with other setups.

#### Installing Backend Dependencies

The following command will install all modules listed in `requirements.txt`, which are required by the backend to run.

    pip install -r requirements.txt

Note: For some reason the dependency package `appdirs` does not get installed.  If that happens, just run `pip install appdirs` to install it, and then run `pip install -r requirements.txt` again.

#### Running the Backend

And here, we finally run the backend.  It would interact with the ElasticSearch server which is expected to be listening on `localhost:9200`.  If you have it somewhere else, you can change the values in `config.py`.

    python application.py

The server listens on [http://localhost:5000](http://localhost:5000).

### Setting Up and Running the Frontend Server

Open another terminal and change the working directory to `nsv/frontend`.

    cd /path/to/nsv/frontend

We then install `bower` and `npm` components required by the frontend.

    bower install && npm install

Then, we create the server instance.  This may also automatically open up your browser and redirect it to the web applicaton's home page.

    grunt serve

The server is expected to listen on [http://localhost:9000](http://localhost:9000).

### Compiling the Pages and Running the Frontend Server Statically

We can also compile the frontend to make it more distributable by running:

    grunt build

This would create a compiled version of the site in the `dist` directory.

From there, we can run the simple Python server:

    ( cd dist && python -m http.server )

The server listens on `0.0.0.0` port `8000`.

Commit message:

Some updates
Frontend:
- Renamed config.backend_server variable to config.backend_api_base_url.
  Its assigned value is also changed from http://localhost:5000 to
  http://localhost:5000/api.
- Added 'grunt-cli' to dependency.

Backend:
- Changed default API prefix to '/api'.
- Added more configuration variables.
- Removed Root resource from API.
- Fixed syntax error when calling app.run.

Documentation:
- Made some updates.

README.md, after:

# Nmap Scans Visualizer

This tool demonstrates visualization of specially-formatted Nmap scan data.  It runs by 3 components:

- An ElasticSearch server were the data is stored and queried
- A backend server using Flask that communicates with the ElasticSearch server and exposes API services to the web
- The frontend server which provides the Web UI that interacts with the user and communicate with the backend server

## Requirements

- A running ElasticSearch server that is accessible to the backend
- Python (Tested with 3.4.3), Ruby, Bash
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)
- [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/)

## Installation and Running Frontend and Backend Locally

First, we create a local copy by cloning repo:

    git clone https://github.com/rp-pedraza/nsv.git

Then, we change the working directory to the local copy:

    cd nsv

### Importing Data

Then, we prepare data for importing.  This will process data from the raw JSONified nmap scan files in `data` directory and save them to `data.processed`.

    ruby process-data.rb

After that, we import the processed data to the ElasticSearch server.  The default target server is `localhost:9200`, but it can be changed by opening `import-processed-data.sh` with a text editor and changing the value next to `ELASTICSEARCH_ADDRESS=`.

    bash import-processed-data.sh

### Setting Up and Running the Backend Server

After importing data, we now set up the backend server.  Change the working directory to `backend`:

    cd backend

#### Preparing a Virtualenv Environment

From here, we create an isolated environment through `virtualenv`.

If you don't have the tool installed in your system, you can install it with `pip`.

    pip install virtualenv

Alternatively, you can have it installed for the current user only by adding the `--user` option.  This would install the files in `~/.local`.

You would have to add `~/.local/bin` to the value of the `PATH` variable to be able to relatively execute the `virtualenv` binary.

    pip install virtualenv --user
    PATH=~/.local/bin:${PATH}

You can also make the modification of `PATH` permanent by adding `[[ -f ~/.bashrc ]] && . ~/.bashrc` to `~/.bash_profile` and `PATH=~/.local/bin:${PATH}` to `~/.bashrc`.

Once `virtualenv` is properly installed, we continue with the creation of the environment.  Make sure you're in the `backend` directory before running the following command:

    virtualenv venv

Then, we activate the environment.

    source venv/bin/activate

You would notice a change in your shell prompt when done.  It would be prefixed with `venv`.

At this point, we can now freely install the dependency modules without worrying about causing conflict with other setups.

#### Installing Backend Dependencies

The following command will install all modules listed in `requirements.txt`, which are required by the backend to run.

    pip install -r requirements.txt

Note: For some reason the dependency package `appdirs` does not get installed.  If that happens, just run `pip install appdirs` to install it, and then run `pip install -r requirements.txt` again.

#### Running the Backend

And here, we finally run the backend.  It would interact with the ElasticSearch server which is expected to be listening on `localhost:9200`.  If you have it somewhere else, you can change the values in `config.py`.

    python application.py

The server by default listens on [http://localhost:5000](http://localhost:5000).

### Setting Up and Running the Frontend Server

Open another terminal and change the working directory to `nsv/frontend`.

    cd /path/to/nsv/frontend

We then install `bower` and `npm` components required by the frontend.

    bower install && npm install

Then, we create the server instance.  This may also automatically open up your browser and redirect it to the web applicaton's home page.

    PATH=$(npm bin):$PATH grunt serve

The server by default listens on [http://localhost:9000](http://localhost:9000).

### Compiling the Pages and Running the Frontend Server Statically

We can also compile the frontend to make it more distributable by running:

    PATH=$(npm bin):$PATH grunt build

This would create a compiled version of the site in the `dist` directory.

From there, we can run the simple Python server:

    ( cd dist && python -m http.server )

The server by default listens on `0.0.0.0`, port `8000`.
